Donald Trump says he does NOT want Georgia's governor want to open up tattoo parlors and spas immediately but will 'respect his decision' - despite Dr. Fauci bluntly saying state's leader should ditch his plans
President Trump said Wednesday that he told Georgia's Republican Gov. Brian Kemp not to open businesses like hair salons and tattoo parlors  
'I told the governor of Georgia that I disagree, strongly, with this decisions to open certain facilities,' Trump said 
The president called it 'too soon' to open spas, beauty salons, tattoo parlors and barber shops 
Here’s how to help people impacted by Covid-19
President Trump said Wednesday that he told Georgia's Republican Gov. Brian Kemp not to open businesses like hair salons and tattoo parlors yet - but said he would respect the governor's decision if he went ahead.  
'I told the governor of Georgia that I disagree, strongly, with this decisions to open certain facilities which are in violation of the phase one guidelines, for the incredible people of Georgia,' Trump said at the Wednesday press briefing. 
The president called it 'too soon' to open spas, beauty salons, tattoo parlors and barber shops - where worker and customers, by default, can't stay socially distant - as some are set to reopen in Georgia as soon as Friday.  
Dr. Anthony Fauci echoed the sentiment several minutes later when asked about Kemp's plan. 
'If I were advising the governor, I would tell him he should be careful,' Fauci said.
'But going ahead and leapfrogging into phases where you should not be, I would advise him as a health official and as a physician not to do that,' Fauci said. 
Last week the White House rolled out a three-phase plan to reopen the American economy. 
In order to get to phase one, states needed to see a 14-day decrease in the number of COVID-19 cases. 
States also needed to have sufficient hospital capabilities and a testing system in place. 
At that point, phase one allowed for the reopening of some businesses, including large venues and gyms, while others, like bars, were to remain closed. 
But so far none of the states that have committed to partially reopening have met the White House criteria to begin phase one.  RELATED ARTICLES
Republicans governors in Georgia, South Carolina, Tennessee and Texas have all set dates to lift social distancing and business closure restrictions within the next two weeks.   
At the briefing, only Kemp in Georgia was singled out. 
The president talked about how the two men were political allies and how he helped Kemp, during the 2018 election, win over Stacey Abrams, a Democrat whose name has been floated to be Joe Biden's running mate.  
Trump misgendered Abrams when he went on a quick tangent about Kemp's electoral success.  
'He beat the superstar of their party. I think you can say I helped a lot,' Trump said. 'Michelle Obama, Barack Obama, Oprah Winfrey, they all went into campaign for him very, very hard and he lost,' Trump said meaning Abrams, who's a woman.  
 Trump said his objection to Kemp's opening date was just a nitpicky thing. 
'There's a lot of good feeling between myself and Brian Kemp,' the presidnet said. 'I like him a lot. I happen to disagree with him, only in timing.' 
From there, Trump talked about how he loved the patrons of the establishments he wanted the governor to keep closed.  
'When you have spas, beauty parlors, and I love these people, I know the people from spas and beauty parlors, tattoo parlors. Bikers for Trump - a lot of tattoos, I love them, I love these people,' the president said. 'Barbershops, these are great people. But maybe you wait a little longer until you get into phase two,' he advised. 
The president said, however, it was Kemp's decision. 
'At the same time he must do what he thinks is right,' Trump said of Kemp. 'But I disagree with him on what he's doing.' 
The president said he would intervene, however, 'if I see something totally egregious, totally out of line,' he said. 
'But I think spas and beauty salons and tattoo parlors and barber shops in phase one, we're going to have phase two very soon - it's just too soon, I think it's too soon,' Trump said. 
'I love those people who use all of those things - the spas and the beauty parlors and the barber shops, tattoo parlors, I love them,' he added. 'But they can wait a little longer. Just a little bit, not much. Because safety has to predominate.'  